During the beginning of 21st century, Grocery shopping usually happened in the local retail stores. With the advance in smart phones, the same started happening on your phones with the grocery delivered at your doorsteps with delivery time of a few hours. But imagine this condition: Guests arrive at your home and you walk into your kitchen to get them coffee and you notice that there is no more sugar at home to prepare them coffee. Neither your smart phone nor the retail store can come to your rescue at such a situation because u can neither wait for another hour for the sugar to be delivered nor walk out of your home to the nearest retail store. The one thing that may possibly come into your mind is, what if your kitchen itself was a shopping mart and sugar is made available for your usage in no time when you require it. And our hack of KitchenMart aims at providing such a solution to our customers by making use of human machine interaction and image recognition techniques.

IDEA : KitchenMart achieves its aim of bringing the shopping mart to your kitchen, by making the jars and containers in your kitchen smart enough to identify what they contain and their quantity and thus making the local retailer or the online grocery provider aware of what you may require and when you may require them. Once they have this information, they can preplan their delivery so that they arrive at you exactly when you are in need of them.

HOW IS IT BUILT: We will have the containers/jars that are used in the kitchen built with sensors that can identify the contents and also the quantity. We primarily use pressure sensors to measure the quantity and image recognition to identify the substance. We also have a intel edison microcontroller placed in the kitchen that gathers all this information and sends it over to our nodejs server which stores the same in a mongodb database. This information can be shared with the retailers based on the user preferences. We also have a android application that the kitchen owner can use to track all the details of jars in the kitchen, their quantity, manage automatic bookings, analyse consumption rates etc.

